So what are kernels and convolutions and how do
they relate to features extracted from an image?
To answer that, we first have to understand how
information is intrinsically represented in images.
And to understand that,
we need to understand what we refer to as the frequency content of images.
Images however, are just another form of natural signals.
Sounds are also natural signals and all signals have what we call frequency content.
Now this is very similar to how we think of frequencies in a musical sense.
High frequencies and sounds are made by dolphins squeaks for example,
versus let's say low frequencies made by a bass.
The same applies to images.
Rapidly high changing pixel values like those
found between the edges of objects correspond to
high frequencies whereas say
a slowly changing and blurry part of an image will correspond to lower frequencies.
It also turns out that a lot of important information relevant to
good pattern recognition is encoded in the edges between objects,
hence the high frequency content of those parts of the images.
So how do we extract those edges and thus high frequency components?
Well, specific kernels correspond to specific features of images.
That is to say, specific kernels can extract specific features of images.
So for example, if you have an edge kernel such as say, Roberts cross,
we simply convolve it with an image and in doing so,
we're able to create a new image that has all those edges extracted.